feat: Bicep changelog spec (#1848)
Azure/Azure-Verified-Modules: docs/content/specs-defs/includes/bicep/shared/non-functional/BCPNRF22.md

---

> title: BCPNRF22 - Changelog

Reviewer: Consider something like: "Bicep Module Changelog".

  Language-Bicep, # MULTIPLE VALUES: this can be "Language-Bicep" AND/OR "Language-Terraform"
  # Language-Terraform, # MULTIPLE VALUES: this can be "Language-Bicep" AND/OR "Language-Terraform"
  Severity-MUST, # SINGLE VALUE: this can be "Severity-MUST" OR "Severity-SHOULD" OR "Severity-MAY"
  Persona-Owner, # MULTIPLE VALUES: this can be "Persona-Owner" AND/OR "Persona-Contributor"
  Persona-Contributor, # MULTIPLE VALUES: this can be "Persona-Owner" AND/OR "Persona-Contributor"
  Lifecycle-BAU, # SINGLE VALUE: this can be "Lifecycle-Initial" OR "Lifecycle-BAU" OR "Lifecycle-EOL"
  Validation-TBD # SINGLE VALUE (PER LANGUAGE): for Bicep, this can be "Validation-BCP/Manual" OR "Validation-BCP/CI/Informational" OR "Validation-BCP/CI/Enforced" and for Terraform, this can be "Validation-TF/Manual" OR "Validation-TF/CI/Informational" OR "Validation-TF/CI/Enforced"
]
priority: 11016
---

## ID: BCPNRF22 - Category: Publishing - Changelog

> When a module, that is going to be published (has a `version.json` file) is changed, an entry **MUST** be created in the `CHANGELOG.md` file in the module folder.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a module to be published (i.e., that has a `version.json` file) is changed, an entry **MUST** be created in the `CHANGELOG.md` file in the module folder.
```

  {{% notice style="note" %}}

>   The versioning is following the [SNFR17 - Semantic Versioning](/Azure-Verified-Modules/spec/SNFR17/) spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  The versioning is following the [SNFR17 - Semantic Versioning]({{% siteparam base %}}/spec/SNFR17/) spec.
```

Reviewer: Note, when cross-referencing content from the AVM site, you need to use the {{% siteparam base %}}  variable as the root of the site, to keep the site portable between the dev and prod instances!

  {{% /notice %}}

> For a new version an entry **MUST** be created above all existing versions in the `CHANGELOG.md` file of the module.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For each new version, an entry **MUST** be created above all existing versions in the `CHANGELOG.md` file of the module.
```

```text
## <version>

### Changes

- this changed
- and this also

### Breaking Changes

- none
```

> Each version's entry contains two sections: *Changes* and *Breaking Changes*. At least one of them must have a meaningfull entry and sections must not be left empty. A `- none` may be added as content for a section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each version's entry **MUST** contain two sections: *Changes* and *Breaking Changes*. At least one of them must have a meaningful entry and sections must not be left empty. A `- none` may be added as content for a section.
```

### Example content of the CHANGELOG.md

A `CHANGELOG.md` file in the module's root folder **MUST** start with the `# Changelog` header, followed by an empty line. A section for each published version follows. Newer versions are placed above older versions.

```text
# Changelog

## 0.2.1

### Changes

- Updated the referenced AVM common types

### Breaking Changes

- none

## 0.2.0

### Changes

- Implemented the minCPU parameter
- Updated the referenced VirtualNetwork module
- Updated the referenced AVM common types

### Breaking Changes

- The minCPU parameter is mandatory

## 0.1.0

### Changes

- Initial Release

### Breaking Changes

- none

```

### Manual Editing

> It is possible to modify the changelog content any time to e.g. add missing versions. Please note the following requirements in all cases:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is possible to modify the changelog content any time, e.g., to add missing versions. Please note the following requirements in all cases:
```

- all versions in the file, need to be available as published version
- every version needs the two sections `## Changes` and `## Breaking Changes` with content

{{% notice style="note" %}}

> All published versions can be listed as tags in the Microsoft Container Registry (MCR) for each module [https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/bicep/avm/(res|ptn|utl)/<namespace/modulename>/tags/list](https://mcr.microsoft.com/v2/bicep/avm/$moduleType/$moduleFolderName/tags/list)

Reviewer: I don't quite understand this bit. I feel like I'm lacking context. Can you elaborate on this a bit more? If it's not the best place to explain details, let's put it somewhere else, and include a link here.

Author: Thanks for the feedback. I hope the adjustments make it clearer what I meant.
